## 2020-10-26 Cats Update

Posted on 2020-10-26

From this week, we are going to publish blog posts for SP3 work. We hope this will keep you updated and we can get some feedback from you as well. 

### Mykrobe updated to 0.9.0
[Mykrobe](https://github.com/Mykrobe-tools/mykrobe/wiki/AMR-prediction-output) has a new version (0.9.0) with new lineage calls.

It has been integrated into "Clockwork combined with gvcf", the mykrobe output file can be downloaded from: **{sample name}/speciation/mykrobe_output.json**

We will integrate the new output into the report.

*Contributors: Martin, Fan, Denis*

### Mykrobe paper samples run (4K out of 13.8K)
ENA samples published with [Mykrobe paper](https://wellcomeopenresearch.org/articles/4-191/v1) are going through SP3 Clockwork pipeline, it has 13871 samples, which will take about 15 days to run with our current capacity. 

From Oct 22 to Oct 26, 4000 samples have been run through clockwork pipeline. The fasta files have been added to neighbourhood service, catwalk. This means you might find some samples in your run are related with some samples from this cohort. 

*Contributors: Martin, Fan*

### Fetch ENA samples in a batch
We are builing a feature to download samples from ENA with a list of run assessions. The backend has been through testing and this will be added to SP3.

*Contributors: Wei, Denis*

### TB Neighbourhood Update
We archive runs from different cloud platforms (e.g. EBI and CLIMB) to SP3 persistence site at the end of the week (UTC Sunday). Then all TB samples are be picked up by TB neighbourhood service, catwalk, and prepared for neighbourhood query. This means, all samples would query neighbourhood against all samples run up to last week.

By Oct 26, catwalk has 10058 samples.

*Contributors: Denis, Fan*

### Users Update
We have 16 registered users from 9 organisations. The SP3 admin page now has a users table, and user attributes can be modified on a single page. Currently different servers run different instances of the authentication API, but in the future we may move it to one central server, so that the logins can be consistent between sites, similar to the @ndm.local LDAP system.

*Contributors: Denis*

### Publishing SP3 Development Blog

This blog site is up and running. The latest source is always available [here](./main.py.txt). This is version 2 of the blog. The first attempt was part of the sp3 web site. However, for simplicity and portability, we decided to go with a static site instead (made over the weekend for a personal blog).

*Contributors: Denis*
